# WiFi-CSI-MiningTool
Scripts and datasets for mining Wi-Fi CSI mainly for breathing rate monitoring but it can be customized and extended for any other CSI-based application.

## Purpose
Los scripts y datasets presentados en este repositorio tienen el propósito de ser una herramienta de ayuda para investigadores del área de desarrollo de aplicaciones de detección inalámbrica al proporcionar una interfaz gráfica para la carga y procesamiento de datos de CSI recolectados utilizando la herramienta [Linux 802.11n CSI Tool](https://dhalperi.github.io/linux-80211n-csitool/).

## What You Will Find
* MATLAB scripts and app for processing CSI data for breathing and heart rate monitoring from files and for monitoring breathing rate using a K-NN trained model.
* A K-NN trained model for breathing rate classification. 
* Class and Deployment diagrams for understanding the composition of the MATLAB app.
* Breathing and heart rate CSI amplitude data from 17 test subjects using the Linux 802.11n CSI Tool at different breathing rates.
* Breathing and heart rate dataset with 161 features and one extra column for ground-truth value.

## How It Works
### The MATLAB App 
The MATLAB app has two operation modes. The first one is *From File* processing, which allows to load either a .dat or .csv file for obtaining the CSI Amplitude (for loading a .csv file correctly, it must only have CSI amplitude data) from files generated by using the Linux 802.11n CSI Tool in Wi-Fi devices (for tool installation please visit [Installation Instructions](https://dhalperi.github.io/linux-80211n-csitool/installation.html) by Halperin et al. ). At the same time, filter parameters can be changed in order to allow experimentation. These filters and parameters are:  
* **Bandpass Filter:** filter order and cut-off frequencies. 
* **Hampel Filter:** window size and threshold. 
* **Savitzky-Golay Filter:** polynomial degree and window size.

**NOTE:** before processing file, please specify the packet rate defined for the Wi-Fi devices packet sending (sample frequency) and the window length of data to use (in seconds, this for applying FFT to data and frequency-domain feature extraction).  

Once *Process File* button is clicked, file will be processed and time and frequency domain features will be extracted for building breathing or heart rate observations that will be shown in screen in table format. This table can be exported to a CSV file that will be located in the same directory where the MATLAB app is located.

## Contact 
**Jesus A. Armenta-Garcia**  
Email: albany.armenta@uabc.edu.mx

**Felix F. Gonzalez-Navarro**  
Email: fernando.gonzalez@uabc.edu.mx
